The memory locations are grouped into blocks called pages. The kernel locates each page of memory in 
  either the physical memory or the swap space. The kernel then maintains a table of the memory pages 
  that indicates which pages are in physical memory and which pages are swapped out to disk.

The kernel keeps track of which memory pages are in use and automatically copies memory pages that have 
  not been accessed for a period of time to the swap space area (called swapping out), even if other 
  memory is available. When a program wants to access a memory page that has been swapped out, the 
  kernel MUST MAKE ROOM FOR IT in physical memory by swapping out a different memory page, and swap in 
  the required page from the swap space. Obviously, this process takes time and can slow down a running
  process. The process of swapping out memory pages for running applications continues for as 
  long as the Linux system is running.

The kernel creates the first process, called the init process, to start all other processes on the 
  system. When the kernel starts, it loads the init process into virtual memory. As the kernel starts 
  each additional process, it gives the process a unique area in virtual memory to store the data 
  and code that the process uses.

Systemd: The systemd initialization method, created in 2010, has become the most popular initialization 
  and process management system used by Linux distributions. The SysVinit initialization method used 
  a concept called runlevels to determine what processes to start. The runlevel defines the state 
  of the running Linux system and what processes should run in each state

The /etc/inittab file defines the default runlevel for a system. The processes that start for 
  specific runlevels are defined in subdirectories of the /etc/rc.d directory. You can view the 
  current runlevel at any time using the runlevel command

The systemd initialization method became popular because it has the ability to start processes 
  based on different events:
 . . When the system boots
 . . When a particular hardware device is connected
 . . When a service is started
 . . When a network connection is established
 . . When a timer has expired

The systemd method groups unit files together into targets. A target defines a specific running state 
  of the Linux system, similar to the SysVinit runlevel concept. At system startup, the default.target 
  unit defines all the unit files to start.

Hardware management:
Two methods are used for inserting device driver code in the Linux kernel:
  Drivers compiled in the kernel
  Driver modules added to the kernel
Previously, the only way to insert device driver code was to recompile the kernel. Each time you 
  added a new device to the system, you had to recompile the kernel code. This process became even 
  more inefficient as Linux kernels supported more hardware. Fortunately, Linux developers devised a 
  better method to insert driver code into the running kernel. Programmers developed the concept of 
  kernel modules to allow you to insert driver code into a running kernel without having to recompile 
  the kernel. Also, a kernel module could be removed from the kernel when the device was finished 
  being used. This greatly simplified and expanded using hardware with Linux.

The Linux system identifies hardware devices as special files, called device
  files. There are three classifications of device files: Character, Block, Network
  
Character device files are for devices that can handle data only one character at a time. Most 
  types of modems and terminals are created as character files. Block files are for devices that can 
  handle data in large blocks at a time, such as disk drives. The network file types are used for 
  devices that use packets to send and receive data. This includes network cards and a special loopback 
  device that allows the Linux system to communicate with itself using common network programming protocols.

The Linux kernel interfaces with each filesystem using the Virtual File System (VFS). This provides 
  a standard interface for the kernel to communicate with any type of filesystem. VFS caches 
  information in memory as each filesystem is mounted and used.

The GNU organization (GNU stands for GNU's Not Unix) developed a complete set of Unix utilities but 
  had no kernel system to run them on. These utilities were developed under a software philosophy 
  called open source software (OSS).

The GNU coreutils package consists of three parts:
  Utilities for handling files
  Utilities for manipulating text
  Utilities for managing processes

One way to get to a CLI is to access the Linux system via text mode. This provides nothing more than 
  a simple shell CLI on the monitor, just like the days before graphical desktops. This mode is called 
  the Linux console because it emulates the old days of a hard-wired console terminal and is a
  direct interface to the Linux system.


The common Linux directory names are based on the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS). Many Linux 
  distributions maintain compliance with FHS. Therefore, you should be able to easily find files 
  on any FHS-compliant Linux systems.
NOTE: The FHS is occasionally updated. You may find that some Linux distributions are still using 
  an older FHS standard, whereas other distributions only partially implement the current standard. 
  To keep up to date on the FHS standard, visit its official home at 
  refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/fhs.shtml.


Listing files:
The file type — such as directory (d), file (-), linked file (l),   
  character device (c), or block device (b)


